so as I mentioned in the previous video we are going to read in the directions.txt file
that we've written and it's a very
similar process to reading the locations
but the difference is I am going to introduce a BufferedReader now a
BufferedReader reads texts from the
input stream and buffers the characters
into a character array so for our example we are going to still create a file reader we're
going to use it as an input stream for
the BufferedReader to use now reading
chunks of data from a stream such as a
file is more efficient than reading just
a few characters at a time and the reason for that is that things like the
overheard of seeking to the correct track and
sector on your disk drive are
significant so it takes awhile to
find the correct place on the disk drive
to read from and if you have to do that
many times because only a few bits have
been read at a time then the seek times for this really do add up so
consequently BufferedReaders can be a lot more
streamlined you know faster in other words in
you know more efficient now you can specify the
size of the buffer but the default is
8k bytes and that's enough really for
most purposes
now our files here are both smaller than 8k so what that means is the entire
contents of the file will be read into
the buffer in a single read and be
available from there for the scanner to
use it as it needs more data so let's go ahead
and look at implementing that now so I've already
read in the locations as you can see
here starting on lines 48 or actually starting on lines 46 to be
precise so let's go ahead and as I
mentioned read the directions in so
we are gonna actually put that in its own
try block come right down here and actually add a
separate try block and bearing in mind we
are going to change this to a try with
resources later so let's start
with that so...
....
....which is the name of
the file that we used to store our
directions.txt I am gonna accept those
import and set our delimiter so...
....
....and we
need to get the destination so....but before we do that
we need to actually skipped so...
and of course we are doing that to go to the next.....
...we are doing that to go to the
next comma because we have read in the
first one which is the location and we
are going to read in the directions and I should have a
delimiter their as well because obviously each piece of data if you recall looking at the directions.txt
we've got them separated by
commas so consequently of course we need to
use that linescanner.delimiter to
skip for each one of those so I've
got the location I'm reading on line 67 I'm
skipping the direction I'm skipping the
last one is going to be the destination so...
..so we are going to read on the end of the line now because that's really the only data their and
then let's...
create an integer.....and we are converting it into an integer because that is what it is going to
be use for then we are going to print them out so...
....
.....and then we need add an exit to it so....
...so we are building up the destination object and we haven't written that
code for add exits so it's
normal to expect an error their and we
need to catch our potential errors
which is IOException....
.....
...and we're also gonna
add a finally.....
...so what we are doing
here is that the file reader is passed to
the buffered readers constructor this is
on line 64 then the
BufferedReader itself has passed to the
scanners constructor and once again
I just want to point out the classes are designed to be used in this way and closing the scanner
will actually close to BufferedReader and
that's of course because it implements the
close interface that we talk about in the last video so you can check
the buffered readers close method if you want
to now look for close so you can see
that it calls the Close method it and it calls
the Close method of the reader and we
just have a look at that you can see in is
actually a private reader in so
basically again what it's doing is it's
it's implementing the closable interface
and therefore that closes
automatically gonna be called for the
buffered reader and if we just go up and have a
look at the buffered reader you can see that
it's an abstract class that implements
readable and closable so again for that
reason its going to basically be auto
closed once the processing has been
completed for it so again closing it down
and just looking at the code that we've just
written we basically going through in one
field at a time and extracting that field
from the scanner because obviously we've used
commas as delimiters as I mentioned
earlier in this video
so to read it back we tell the scanner that it
needs to use a comma as a
delimiter so of course it knows when to
stop reading each piece of information
and most of the body of the while loop has
taken up in getting the integer string
and that integer data from each line of the
buffer and reading data into numerical
values from a text file can be
problematic and I have to read the final
number as a string using the next line method this is the code on line
line 71 because there's no comma delimited
to tell the scanner to reading in int
because that's really at the end of the
that particular line and in fact the scanner may not be the best way to pass this data the thing
to remember with scanner is that they can
be notoriously difficult to use and
really can take some trial and error to
get to behave properly with a particular
data set now in this example we had to skip
over the delimiter while reading strings as
otherwise the delimiter is included in
the string and you can see I skipped on
line 68 and line 70 then the other thing is
we got an error when trying to call the
location object add exit method and
that's because we remove the
method when trying to make the class immutable in previous videos so lets add
the add exit method back to the location class
but we are gonna changed it just to protect ourselves
so come down here into location we are gonna add it but we are gonna add it as protected so its only available to classes in our
package and of course subclasses
of locations as well
so...
...
....
...if we go back now that error should disappear on line 75 and we are good to go so before I change anything else lets
actually run the program and make sure it works so lets have a look at it and you can
see we've got our comments and if you recall in our code I added
some output on line 49 to say we have imported the various locations and we got
the location and number and the
actual descriptions and we have also got our
exits data as well so that seems
to have read that and working ok which is good so
we've done that so lets actually go now and run the
code from the main class so we can
run the program to make sure it's still
actually runs and works so will do that
we can actually just move around to
different locations in our game ok so we are starting at
the end of the road so lets go north again go south
again
go east go west go east again go say north can't go in that direction lets quit so that
seems to be working very well which is
fantastic and obviously you can see that
the code at the top there was actually
printing out the locations data that was
coming through when it was imported so we can see that its actually being read
successfully from both locations.txt file as well as the directions.txt
file now another way to pass this data is to read it line by line and then we could
actually use the String class split
method to get each part of the line into a
string array its then quite simple to parse the values that really should be integers
so lets actually look at another way of
doing that's I am gonna close this down
and go back to locations and I'm going to comment out the code
that we actually add in their so comment out this code
up until that destination line they're
comment that out and will do something using the string.split...
so the way to do that would be string.....
that has read the entire line this time rather
than reading sort of 1 of 3 field which we've
done on lines 67 to 72 which I've commented out now so we've read
basically the entire line and then we can do.....
....and that creates a
string array which has now got each
one of these fields from that line in
for us...
....
then these lines here on line 79 to 81 their
unchanged because they are still taking the
same variable names and being processed
so we just run this to make sure that it works
again and we can still run our game so that is still working
which is good so that code there it's
probably a bit easy to understand and
also I can be easy to implement when
we're dealing with data that separated in some way at this point  you might be thinking we are back where
we started and we actually have more code than
we had before so what is the actual
advantage well with the small number of locations that we have at the moment the advantage is
not really obvious but I've actually in
the next video
I've got a download for you in the Resources
section of the video and we are going to use
those files instead because I got a lot
more locations and as a result you wll
sort of see the advantages you know when
you're dealing with larger text files so lets end
the video here now and the next one
will go ahead and look at implementing
that data so that we can actually run the
game with more locations see you in
the next video